README.md, before:

FIRE 
====
[![pipeline status](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/badges/ci/pipeline.svg)](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/commits/ci)
[![coverage report](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/badges/ci/coverage.svg)](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/commits/ci)

FIRE (Fusion Infra Red Experiments) is the analysis code called by the MAST-U schedulers after each discharge to process infra-red camera data.

Installing FIRE
---------------

It is recommended that these instructions are followed using the bash shell. Make sure you have seeral GB of disk quota available for a smooth installation. Clone the air repository in a location of your choice:
```bash
$ cd <path_to_clone_air_reposintory>  # location to clone air repo to
$ cd air
$ git checkout dev  # Switch to the up to date dev branch
```
It is recommended to create a [virtual environment](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/#using-virtual-environments) for FIRE to isolate it's
package dependencies from the rest of your system, while using the system
packages as a base (for instructions using virtualenvwrapper see the [section below](#installing-venv-packages)). To clone FIRE and set up a virtual enviroment on freia:
```bash
 # From air/ directory

$ module switch python/3.7  # Use python3.7 as base for your venv
$ pip install --user virtualenv  # If not already installed
$ python3 -m venv env --system-site-packages --upgrade-deps  # build new venv from central python installation

# Every time you work with the venv you will need to do:
$ source env/bin/activate  # Activate the virtual enviroment
```
Now your shell prompt should be proceeded by `(env) $` indicating your venv is active. Now any python packages you install will be installed in your air/venv directory and the `--user` argument to pip is no longer necessary. Use the `deactivate` command to revert to central python environment.

Install fire in developer mode along with it's pypy dependencies :
```bash
 # From air/ directory

$ pip install --user -e .
```
The following ukaea gitlab repositories require ukaea credentials and so are most easily installed from cloned repositories (assuming [ssh keys](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ssh/#generate-an-ssh-key-pair) already set up):
```bash
$ cd <path_to_clone_reposintories>  # location to clone repos

$ git clone git@github.com:euratom-software/calcam.git  # Spatial calibration classes.
 # If you don't have ssh keys set up with _github_ use https:
 #  $ git clone https://github.com/euratom-software/calcam.git

$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:jrh/mastu_exhaust_analysis.git  # Used for efit equilibria amongst other things
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:MAST-U/mastvideo.git  # Required for reading local IPX files
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:SOL_Transport/pyEquilibrium.git # Used for efit equilibria
# Optional dependecies:
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:SOL_Transport/pyIpx.git  # Older alternative to mastvideo library

# Install the packages in developer mode
$ pip install -e calcam
$ pip install -e mastu_exhaust_analysis
$ pip install -e mastvideo
$ pip install -e pyEquilibrium pyIpx
```

Several other ukaea repos also complement working with FIRE and are also recommended. These can be cloned and installed as shown bellow
```bash
$ cd <directory_to_clone_repos>

$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:MAST-U_Scheduler/air_calib.git  # Calibration data
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:mast-u-diagnostics/ir_analysis.git  # Scripts for performing analysis runs with FIRE, provenance capture etc.
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:mast-u-diagnostics/ir_tools.git# Scripts for working with IR data, producing calcam calibration images etc

$ pip install -e ir_tools
$ pip install -e ir_analysis
```
If working on Freia you may need to configure several settings. It is recommended these commands are added to your ~/.bashrc so you don't have to manually run them every time you want to work with FIRE. Alternatively you can source the example bashrc file in this repository (air/fire/input_files/user/bashrc_fire).
```bash
module purge
module load FUN
moudle swap python/3.7
module load vtk7/3.5.1  # Needed for Calcam renders to work
export FIRE_USER_DIR="<path_to_my_chosen_directory>"  # Only necessary if you don't want to use the default "~/fire" directory

# If using virtualenvwrapper (see below):
export WORKON_HOME=~/Envs
source ~/.local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

```

Run tests to confirm installation of FIRE is successful:
```bash
$ pytest tests/test_suite_fast.py  # Fast

$ python setup.py test  # Slow

$ python fire/scripts/run_fire_example.py  # Example run
```

#### Using virtualenvwrapper packages
As an alternative to creating a virtualenv directory in the air repo it can be nice to work with virtualenvwrapper (check installed with `pip show virtualenv`) which place all your venvs in one directory and provides some convenience functions. To use this follow the steps below before starting the installation process described above.
```bash
$ module unload python
$ module load python/3.7  # Use python3.7 as base
$ pip install --user virtualenv virtualenvwrapper

 # Add these two lines to your .bashrc to save running them each time
$ export WORKON_HOME=~/Envs
$ source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

 # Create a venv named 'fire'
$ mkvirtualenv fire --system-site-packages

 # Use workon every time you want to work with this venv:
$ workon fire  # This should put (fire) at start of terminal prompt. Use deactivate to revert to central python enviroment
```

## Configuring FIRE
When FIRE is run for the first time, if it doesn't find user settings in the default location (`~/fire/`) it will default to creating this directory and populating it with a default user configuration file `fire_config.json`.
If you would like your fire user directory (location for user settings and output figures and files etc) then your alternative path can either be passed to schduler_workflow(user_path=...) each time or it can be set more permanently by settings the `FIRE_USER_DIR` enviroment variable in your .bashrc:
```bash
export FIRE_USER_DIR=<my_fire_user_directory_path>
```

Instruction for configuring your `fire_config.json` coming soon...

Summary for running the scheduler code
--------------------------------------

* Languge: Python 3.6+
* Scheduler signal dependencies:
    - Hard: None
    - Soft: Efit (in future)
* Command(s) for running the code (from the air repository directory):
    - `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py <camera_tag> <shot_number>, -pass <pass_number>`
        - eg `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py rit 44628`
    - See `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py --help` for the full call signature
    - No scheudler flag is currently requireed in the call
* Freia module dependencies:
    - FUN
    - python/3.7
    - uda-mast/
* Emails for recipients of automatic emails:
    - tom.farley@ukaea.uk
* Contact for advice using FIRE code:
    - Tom Farley, tom.farley@ukaea.uk (RO for IR cameras)

Documentation
--------------
If you are on the ukaea network, the full FIRE documentation can be found
[here](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air.gitlab.io/fire/docs/sphinx/build/html) at:
[https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air.gitlab.io/fire/](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air.gitlab.io/fire/)

Alternatively open [``docs/sphinx/build/html/index.html``](docs/sphinx/build/html/index.html) from this repository.

Gitlab pages path should be: https://mast-u_scheduler.gitpages.ccfe.ac.uk/air?

For authorship information see AUTHORS.txt, and for details of how to cite the code in academic publications see CITE.txt.

Troubleshooting
---------------
- skimage ImportError
    - Details: Sometimes the installation results in a more recent version of scikit-image being installed which causes issues.
    - Solution:
        - With FIRE venv active:
        `$ pip install --upgrade scikit-image==0.18.3`
- "TypeError: load() missing 1 required positional argument: 'Loader'":
    - Details: Not sure if this is due to outdated dask or yaml packages?
    - Solution: Try each of these steps (with venv active):
        - `pip install --upgrade dask`
        - `pip install --upgrade pyyaml==6.0`
        - `pip install --upgrade distributed`
- Calcam CAD error
    - Solution: Configure Calcam with CAD location
        - `$ python`
        - `>>> import calcam`
        - `>>> calcam.start_gui()`
        - Click 'Settings' and add path to .ccm CAD files in e.g. air_calib/cad

Commit message:

Update top level docs files

README.md, after:

FIRE 
====
[![pipeline status](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/badges/ci/pipeline.svg)](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/commits/ci)
[![coverage report](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/badges/ci/coverage.svg)](https://git.ccfe.ac.uk/MAST-U_Scheduler/air/commits/ci)

FIRE (Fusion Infra Red Experiments) is the analysis code called by the MAST-U schedulers after each discharge to process infra-red camera data.

Documentation
--------------
If you are on the ukaea network, the full FIRE gitlab pages documentation can be found
[here](http://mast-u_scheduler.gitpages.ccfe.ac.uk/air) at:
[http://mast-u_scheduler.gitpages.ccfe.ac.uk/air](http://mast-u_scheduler.gitpages.ccfe.ac.uk/air)

For authorship information see AUTHORS.txt, and for details of how to cite the code in academic publications see CITE.txt.

Installing FIRE
---------------

It is recommended that these instructions are followed using the bash shell. Make sure you have seeral GB of disk quota available for a smooth installation. Clone the air repository in a location of your choice:
```bash
$ cd <path_to_clone_air_reposintory>  # location to clone air repo to
$ cd air
$ git checkout dev  # Switch to the up to date dev branch
```
It is recommended to create a [virtual environment](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/#using-virtual-environments) for FIRE to isolate it's
package dependencies from the rest of your system, while using the system
packages as a base (for instructions using virtualenvwrapper see the [section below](#installing-venv-packages)). To clone FIRE and set up a virtual enviroment on freia:
```bash
 # From air/ directory

$ module switch python/3.7  # Use python3.7 as base for your venv
$ pip install --user virtualenv  # If not already installed
$ python3 -m venv env --system-site-packages --upgrade-deps  # build new venv from central python installation

# Every time you work with the venv you will need to do:
$ source env/bin/activate  # Activate the virtual enviroment
```
Now your shell prompt should be proceeded by `(env) $` indicating your venv is active. Now any python packages you install will be installed in your air/venv directory and the `--user` argument to pip is no longer necessary. Use the `deactivate` command to revert to central python environment.

Install fire in developer mode along with it's pypy dependencies :
```bash
 # From air/ directory

$ pip install --user -e .
```
The following ukaea gitlab repositories require ukaea credentials and so are most easily installed from cloned repositories (assuming [ssh keys](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ssh/#generate-an-ssh-key-pair) already set up):
```bash
$ cd <path_to_clone_reposintories>  # location to clone repos

$ git clone git@github.com:euratom-software/calcam.git  # Spatial calibration classes.
 # If you don't have ssh keys set up with _github_ use https:
 #  $ git clone https://github.com/euratom-software/calcam.git

$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:jrh/mastu_exhaust_analysis.git  # Used for efit equilibria amongst other things
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:MAST-U/mastvideo.git  # Required for reading local IPX files
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:SOL_Transport/pyEquilibrium.git # Used for efit equilibria
# Optional dependecies:
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:SOL_Transport/pyIpx.git  # Older alternative to mastvideo library

# Install the packages in developer mode
$ pip install -e calcam
$ pip install -e mastu_exhaust_analysis
$ pip install -e mastvideo
$ pip install -e pyEquilibrium pyIpx
```

Several other ukaea repos also complement working with FIRE and are also recommended. These can be cloned and installed as shown bellow
```bash
$ cd <directory_to_clone_repos>

$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:MAST-U_Scheduler/air_calib.git  # Calibration data
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:mast-u-diagnostics/ir_analysis.git  # Scripts for performing analysis runs with FIRE, provenance capture etc.
$ git clone git@git.ccfe.ac.uk:mast-u-diagnostics/ir_tools.git# Scripts for working with IR data, producing calcam calibration images etc

$ pip install -e ir_tools
$ pip install -e ir_analysis
```
If working on Freia you may need to configure several settings. It is recommended these commands are added to your ~/.bashrc so you don't have to manually run them every time you want to work with FIRE. Alternatively you can source the example bashrc file in this repository (air/fire/input_files/user/bashrc_fire).
```bash
module purge
module load FUN
moudle swap python/3.7
module load vtk7/3.5.1  # Needed for Calcam renders to work
export FIRE_USER_DIR="<path_to_my_chosen_directory>"  # Only necessary if you don't want to use the default "~/fire" directory

# If using virtualenvwrapper (see below):
export WORKON_HOME=~/Envs
source ~/.local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

```

Run tests to confirm installation of FIRE is successful:
```bash
$ pytest tests/test_suite_fast.py  # Fast

$ python setup.py test  # Slow

$ python fire/scripts/run_fire_example.py  # Example run
```

#### Using virtualenvwrapper packages
As an alternative to creating a virtualenv directory in the air repo it can be nice to work with virtualenvwrapper (check installed with `pip show virtualenv`) which place all your venvs in one directory and provides some convenience functions. To use this follow the steps below before starting the installation process described above.
```bash
$ module unload python
$ module load python/3.7  # Use python3.7 as base
$ pip install --user virtualenv virtualenvwrapper

 # Add these two lines to your .bashrc to save running them each time
$ export WORKON_HOME=~/Envs
$ source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

 # Create a venv named 'fire'
$ mkvirtualenv fire --system-site-packages

 # Use workon every time you want to work with this venv:
$ workon fire  # This should put (fire) at start of terminal prompt. Use deactivate to revert to central python enviroment
```

## Configuring FIRE
When FIRE is run for the first time, if it doesn't find user settings in the default location (`~/fire/`) it will default to creating this directory and populating it with a default user configuration file `fire_config.json`.
If you would like your fire user directory (location for user settings and output figures and files etc) then your alternative path can either be passed to schduler_workflow(user_path=...) each time or it can be set more permanently by settings the `FIRE_USER_DIR` enviroment variable in your .bashrc:
```bash
export FIRE_USER_DIR=<my_fire_user_directory_path>
```

Instruction for configuring your `fire_config.json` coming soon...

Summary for running the scheduler code
--------------------------------------

* Languge: Python 3.6+
* Scheduler signal dependencies:
    - Hard: None
    - Soft: Efit (in future)
* Command(s) for running the code (from the air repository directory):
    - `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py <camera_tag> <shot_number>, -pass <pass_number>`
        - eg `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py rit 44628`
    - See `$ python fire/scripts/run_fire.py --help` for the full call signature
    - No scheudler flag is currently requireed in the call
* Freia module dependencies:
    - FUN
    - python/3.7
    - uda-mast/
* Emails for recipients of automatic emails:
    - tom.farley@ukaea.uk
* Contact for advice using FIRE code:
    - Tom Farley, tom.farley@ukaea.uk (RO for IR cameras)

Installation Troubleshooting
----------------------------
- skimage ImportError
    - Details: Sometimes the installation results in a more recent version of scikit-image being installed which causes issues.
    - Solution:
        - With FIRE venv active:
        `$ pip install --upgrade scikit-image==0.18.3`
- "TypeError: load() missing 1 required positional argument: 'Loader'":
    - Details: Not sure if this is due to outdated dask or yaml packages?
    - Solution: Try each of these steps (with venv active):
        - `pip install --upgrade dask`
        - `pip install --upgrade pyyaml==6.0`
        - `pip install --upgrade distributed`
- Calcam CAD error
    - Solution: Configure Calcam with CAD location
        - `$ python`
        - `>>> import calcam`
        - `>>> calcam.start_gui()`
        - Click 'Settings' and add path to .ccm CAD files in e.g. air_calib/cad

See [BUGS_LOG.md](BUGS_LOG.md) for further information of package incompatibilities.

Calcam calirbation
Add analysis path
Camera settings
Change alpha
